The following tables list methods declared on the Javadoc Languedoc collection interface not to be confused
with Java, Utah collections class, which are discussing the latter video.
These methods are categorized by their purpose.
I've examined the implementation of many of these in Section 10 of my YOU to be one zero eight one nine
part one course, specifically the declared use list and a royalist topic.
I will be reviewing many of these methods in my upcoming videos on the collections framework in this
course and the interfaces that extend collection, so I could say there are search methods we've got
to contain the terms of Berlin is passed.
An object comparison methods equals there.
We've got to contains all they can say.
That's part of the collection with a type wild card.
We also got these empty.
They are this next table, I'm not going to read all of these hours, I don't think it'll add a lot
of value by doing that.
But pause the video and or take a screenshot or download the slides if you want to study this in more
detail.
And I suggest it's probably a good idea to do that.
Well, let's talk about some basic functionality that's shared by all collections, so these include
traversing a collection and bulk operations on data.
So firstly, traversing a collection.
No, often you want to manipulate the entire collection or some subset in some way.
You can do this in several ways.
You can traverse over a collection using an iterator by calling the Iterator method.
And you can see an example on screen there shown below.
The second way is the use of the fourth method, a default method and collection, because if you've
got another example of that below.
Another way is to obtain a stream and perform aggregate operations on it.
The example below gets the objects in a set, which are the type item and prints those values, and
we'll be going through streams in a future video.
And fourth, using an enhanced for loop.
And again, this example below and for more details are enhanced for loops referred to by part one one
zero eight one nine course on YouTube.
But so moving on now, let's talk about data manipulation in bulk, so the collection framework supports
methods which can take a set of data as an argument and then perform some bulk manipulation with a single
statement.
So ADA contains all of be in parentheses returns.
True, if the collection represented by A contains all the elements in the collection next week or later
at all will be in parentheses.
Well, that adds all elements to be to a but note to the individual collection tops may implement this
differently, not duplicate.
Collections will only add unique members.
For example, this is equivalent to a database, a unionpay which is unique or a union Olby, which
is all members.
Next, we've got a top removal with B in parentheses, well, that removes elements from A where there
is an intersection of elements between A and B, the B collection can contain elements that are not
in the instance collection.
So this is equivalent to a database A minus B query result next.
I don't retain all with B in parentheses that retains elements A where there's an intersection of elements
between A and B, the big collection can contain elements that are not in the instance collection.
This is equivalent to a database A Intersect B query result.
The last one is clear that removes all elements from the collection such that either is empty becomes
true.
But let's look at the most generic of collections, the sitt represented by the set interface, the
set interface contains only methods inherited from collection.
It has the following features.
Duplicate elements are prohibited in two instances.
Errico if they contain the same elements, the comparison allowed, even if the implementation types
differ.
Three classes that implement the city to face are the hash set tree set and the linked hash it listed
in the table on screen later.
All collection implementations are generic classes of left out the top parameters for a simpler read.
Something from the left hash set implements set.
The order is unpredictable iteration order and in terms of knows, a single null element is permitted
for a set.
Next, we've got a tree set which implements navigable, said the order is of natural order or by use
of co-operator in the constructor, but in terms of now, no null elements are permitted.
And third, we've got linked hasset, which extends, have set and implements set.
The order is a predictable iteration order ordered by insertion order and a single null element is permitted.
The hashtag is backed by a hash table that makes no guarantees as to the iteration or of the set in
particular, does not guarantee that the order will remain constant over time.
So this class permits the null element.
The tree set is never set and sorted, said implementation elements are ordered using their natural
ordering or by a Pereda provider that set creation time depending on which constructor is used.
The linked hash set extends Hasset and maintains a doubly linked list running through all of its entries.
This linked list defines the iteration ordering as the order in which elements were inserted into the
set insertion order.
Note that the insertion order is not affected if an element is reinserted into the set.
Let's end the video here and in the next one, we'll start by looking at a set implementation classes
in code.
See you the next video.